# Cryptocurrency-API-Wallet-Manager
Python script that simulates deposit &amp; withdrawal functionalities of a cryptocurrency wallet using the live price of Bitcoin through API tracking.

#### Video Demo: https://youtu.be/0JDaBBGnKoM
#### Description: My Bitcoin Crypto Wallet Manager project is a program that essentially interacts with the user asking how many coins this person has, and from then is able to deposit/withdraw a desired number of coins to and from the crypto wallet. The number of coins the user “has” upon running the program serves as the coin capacity for the rest of the program, therefore, the user may not deposit or withdraw coins exceeding that threshold, or else the code will result in an “Insufficient funds” error, or ValueError. The coins deposited or withdrawn are converted to the real-time Bitcoin price using the Coindesk Bitcoin Price Index API. The program implements the modules requests and sys. The program opens up with a class Wallet, where in it, the following functions are defined: “init”, taking self, investment, and convert as parameters; “deposit”, taking self and num as parameters; “withdraw”, taking self and num as parameters; and using the @propery decorators for the functions “investment”, “balance”, and “wallet” returning _investment, _balance, and _wallet attributes, respectively. The function init checks if the investment inputted by the user is greater than zero and not another format, like “str”. The value from the conversion of the amount of Bitcoin coins to USD is also checked to be greater than zero and not another format. The instance variable investment and convert are also initialized, with the balance and wallet instance variable being initialized to 0. The deposit function checks if the number of coins given by the user is greater than 0 and is also less than the original investment. Then, the number of coins is added to the wallet, the total number of Bitcoin in USD from the user is added to the balance, and then the number of coins is subtracted from the original investment. The withdraw function also checks if the number of coins given by the user is greater than 0, less than the current value of the wallet, and if the number of coins multiplied by the conversion rate, defaulted as one, is less than the balance. Then, the number of coins is subtracted from the current value of the wallet, and the number of coins multiplied by the conversion rate is subtracted from the balance. The next functions, defined outside of class Wallet(), are described as follows: the get_investment function asks the user of the number of coins the user owns, and converts the input to a float. That “investment” float is then checked if it is greater than or equal to 0, and if it is, then the inside try block will be executed where the convert_coins function, at a conversion rate of 1, will be assigned to the variable convert, where the overall function interacts with the Wallet class and returns the Wallet class with parameters of “investment” (the input) and “convert” (the conversion rate). If the try block fails, then the requests.RequestException is raised, where the program will exit via sys.exit. If the investment variable is less than 0, then a ValueError will be raised. The convert_coins function executed a try block where in the requests module pulls the Coindesk Bitcoin Price Index API into a variable called response. Then, the response.json() method is used to parse the HTTP response from the web request and convert it from JSON format into a Python dictionary, and then response extracts the keys [“bpi”], [“USD”], and [“rate_float”] into a variable named total, which is returned. If the try block does not execute properly and runs into an exception error: “requests.RequestException”, then the program quits via sys.exit. In main, the value of the get_investment() function is assigned into a variable called “portfolio”. Then in an infinite loop until the program is exited by the user, the current balance of the crypto wallet will be printed, and the input of where the user would like to deposit, withdraw, or quit will be assigned to variable “action”. Then a series of if statements are executed. If the action equals deposit, then the float input from the amount the user would like to deposit is assigned to “coins”, where a try block will be executed, calling portfolio with the deposit attribute with parameter “coins”. If there is a ValueError exception, then the program will exit via sys.exit. Else if the action equals withdraw, then the float input from the amount the user would like to withdraw is assigned to “coins”, where a try block will be executed, calling portfolio with the withdraw attribute with parameter “coins”. If there is a ValueError exception, then the program will exit via sys.exit. Else if the action equals quit, then the program will quit via sys.exit, displaying the final portfolio balance, and if none of the correct inputs were entered, then the program will reprompt the user to choose either of the 3 options. Finally, the construct at the end of the program is used to call the main function to kick off the program. For pytest, the Wallet class is imported from project.py, and the functions being tested are as follows: test_init(), test_deposit(), test_withdraw(), test_successful_withdraw(), test_successful_deposit(), test_deposit_over_balance(), and test_withdraw_over_balance() are defined. Test_init checks for any strings or negative integers that may be triggered, and if it is, it is triggered with an Exception error. Test_deposit calls the Wallet and assigns the number of coins at 5 and conversion rate at 1, raising ValueErrors if the deposit value is a 0 or negative. Test_withdraw calls the Wallet and assigns the number of coins at 5 and conversion rate at 1, raising ValueErrors if the deposit value is a 0 or negative. Test_successful_withdraw calls the Walet and assigns the number of coins at 5 and conversion rate at 1, depositing 3 coins and withdrawing 2 to get a wallet value of 1. Test_successful_deposit calls the Walet and assigns the number of coins at 5 and conversion rate at 1, depositing 3 to get a wallet value of 3. Test_deposit_over_balance calls the Walet and assigns the number of coins at 5 and conversion rate at 1, raising a ValueError if the user attempts to deposit 6 coins. Test_withdraw_over_balance calls the Walet and assigns the number of coins at 5 and conversion rate at 1, depositing 2, and raising a ValueError if the user attempts to withdraw 3. As such, I chose this design so that the functions may be organized and its functionality within the class Wallet to best be interpreted from other developers interested in viewing this project, while still enabling interaction with the user from the main function to best emulate the deposit and withdraw usabilities of a real-life crypto wallet on, for example, a crypto exchange such as Coinbase.

